_guides/android/v5/customization/localization.md, before:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title Localization # title as shown in the menu and
description: The PhotoEditor SDK for Android can be localized easily. Learn how to quickly set up your editor in the proper language for your target audience.
menuitem: *title
order: 1
platform: android
version: v5
category:
  - guide
  - customization
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


You can easily add more languages by adding/overwriting string resources.

> __HINT__: This is not only true for strings. You can exchange all localized resources (e.g. add icons for different languages).

For more information take a look at the [Developer Guides](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/resources/localization.html).

## Using the localization editor

Copy and paste the downloaded files (just the files, not the folder) into the `res` folder of your own app. Afterwards, open your project in Android Studio.

Open `res/values/string.xml` (if the file doesn't exist, you will have to create it) and click `Edit translations for all locales in the translations editor.` -> `Open editor`.

![Strings]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/guides/{{page.platform}}/{{page.version}}/imgly_strings.png)

Now you're able to edit all texts and translate them into other languages.

![Editor]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/guides/{{page.platform}}/{{page.version}}/imgly_string_editor.png)

Commit message:

Add right to left information.

_guides/android/v5/customization/localization.md, after:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title Localization # title as shown in the menu and
description: The PhotoEditor SDK for Android can be localized easily. Learn how to quickly set up your editor in the proper language for your target audience.
menuitem: *title
order: 1
platform: android
version: v5
category:
  - guide
  - customization
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


You can easily add more languages by adding/overwriting string resources.

> __HINT__: This is not only true for strings. You can exchange all localized resources (e.g. add icons for different languages).

For more information take a look at the [Developer Guides](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/resources/localization.html).

## Right-to-left \(RTL\) support

If you use a right-to-left language on a device running Android 4.2 or later, our SDK automatically changes the layout, including layout mirroring.

## Using the localization editor

Copy and paste the downloaded files (just the files, not the folder) into the `res` folder of your own app. Afterwards, open your project in Android Studio.

Open `res/values/string.xml` (if the file doesn't exist, you will have to create it) and click `Edit translations for all locales in the translations editor.` -> `Open editor`.

![Strings]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/guides/{{page.platform}}/{{page.version}}/imgly_strings.png)

Now you're able to edit all texts and translate them into other languages.

![Editor]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/guides/{{page.platform}}/{{page.version}}/imgly_string_editor.png)
