_guides/html5/v4-DesktopUI/resources/faq.md, before:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title FAQ # title as shown in the menu and

menuitem: *title
order: 0
platform: html5
version: v4-DesktopUI
category:
  - guide
  - resource
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


## Browser Support

WebGL Renderer:

  * IE 11+
  * FF 15+
  * Chrome 11+
  * Safari 5.1+
  * Opera 19+
  * iOS Safari 8+
  * Firefox for Android 45+
  * Android Browser 47+
  * Opera Mobile 36+

Canvas Renderer (slower than WebGL):

  * IE 9+
  * FF 10+
  * Chrome 11+
  * Safari 2.0+
  * Opera 12+
  * iOS Safari 3.2+
  * Firefox for Android 45+
  * Android Browser 3+
  * Opera Mobile 12+



## CORS issues

The following error messages indicate that the image you have passed to the SDK could not be loaded
due to Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS):

* `Failed to execute 'texImage2D' on 'WebGLRenderingContext': The cross-origin image at [...] may not be loaded.`
* `SECURITY_ERR: DOM Exception 18`
* `Unable to get image data from canvas because the canvas as been tainted by cross-origin data.`

In this case:

* If you're loading images from S3, make sure you created a CORS policy for your S3 bucket (More information [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/cors.html))
* If you're loading images from your own server, make sure the CORS header is set (More information [here](http://enable-cors.org/server.html))
* Make sure you enable CORS for the loaded image (More information [here](http://blog.chromium.org/2011/07/using-cross-domain-images-in-webgl-and.html))

Commit message:

Added supported file formats and webcam support to FAQ

_guides/html5/v4-DesktopUI/resources/faq.md, after:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title FAQ # title as shown in the menu and

menuitem: *title
order: 0
platform: html5
version: v4-DesktopUI
category:
  - guide
  - resource
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


## Browser Support

WebGL Renderer:

  * IE 11+
  * FF 15+
  * Chrome 11+
  * Safari 5.1+
  * Opera 19+
  * iOS Safari 8+
  * Firefox for Android 45+
  * Android Browser 47+
  * Opera Mobile 36+

Canvas Renderer (slower than WebGL):

  * IE 9+
  * FF 10+
  * Chrome 11+
  * Safari 2.0+
  * Opera 12+
  * iOS Safari 3.2+
  * Firefox for Android 45+
  * Android Browser 3+
  * Opera Mobile 12+

Regarding webcam support, please consult [caniuse.com](http://caniuse.com/#feat=stream).



## CORS / Cross Origin Policy issues

The following error messages indicate that the image you have passed to the SDK could not be loaded
due to Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS):

* `Failed to execute 'texImage2D' on 'WebGLRenderingContext': The cross-origin image at [...] may not be loaded.`
* `SECURITY_ERR: DOM Exception 18`
* `Unable to get image data from canvas because the canvas as been tainted by cross-origin data.`

In this case:

* If you're loading images from S3, make sure you created a CORS policy for your S3 bucket (More information [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/cors.html))
* If you're loading images from your own server, make sure the CORS header is set (More information [here](http://enable-cors.org/server.html))
* Make sure you enable CORS for the loaded image (More information [here](http://blog.chromium.org/2011/07/using-cross-domain-images-in-webgl-and.html))



## Supported file formats

For stickers, frames and overlays as well as uploaded files, the supported file formats vary per browser. There's
a good and up-to-date list of supported file formats on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_web_browsers#Image_format_support).
Basically, the best formats to use are JPEG and PNG.

Due to browser limitations, PhotoEditorSDK for HTML5 can only export to JPEG and PNG.
