_guides/html5/v4/introduction/getting_started.md, before:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title Getting started
description: A quick guide on how to easily get started with the PhotoEditor SDK for HTML5. Your kick-off to delight your users with top-notch editing capabilities.
order: 1
menuitem: Getting Started
platform: html5
version: v4
category:
  - guide
  - introduction
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


Integrating our editor into your web application is easy as pie. However, if you can't wait  to see the editor in action you can find a working demo integration [here](https://www.photoeditorsdk.com).


First, download the [latest release](https://github.com/imgly/pesdk-html5-build/releases/latest) from our public GitHub repository and extract it.
Afterwards, you will be left with the following folder structure

```bash
├── assets
│   ├── brushes
│   ├── filters
│   ├── fonts
│   ├── frames
│   ├── overlays
│   ├── stickers
│   └── ui
├── css
└── js
    └── vendor
```

The package contains three folders that you need to integrate to your project.
1. `assets` folder: It contains all assets required for the PhotoEditor, this includes for example assets for *frames*, *stickers* and the *ui*.
1. `css` folder: It contains all *stylesheets* for the PhotoEditor SDK UI.
1. `js` folder: It contains all *javascript* sources of the PhotoEditor and its dependencies.

In order to get started, copy the folders `assets`, `css` and `js` into your project.
Then include the SDK and the UI JavaScript files in your as well as the CSS files inside your `<head>` tag:

{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<head>
  <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
  <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.css" />
</head>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<head>
  <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/vendor/react.min.js"></script>
  <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorReactUI.min.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorReactUI.min.css" />
</head>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

Now, create a `<div>` tag as a container for the editor. The editor will adapt its size according to the dimensions of the container.
For the sake of simplicity, specify the dimensions using inline styles:

```html
<div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
```

Finally, in order to initialize the editor, instantiate the UI using JavaScript. Add the following code right below our containing `<div>` element:


{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<script>
  window.onload = function () {
    var image = new Image()
    image.onload = function () {
        var container = document.getElementById('editor')
        var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI({
        container: container,
        // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
        license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
        editor: {
          image: image
        },
        assets: {
          // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
          baseUrl: '/assets'
        }
      })
    }
    // image.crossOrigin = 'Anonymous'  // Setup CORS accordingly if needed
    image.src = './example.jpg'
  }
</script>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<script>
  window.onload = function () {
    var container = document.getElementById('editor')
    var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI({
      container: container,
      // Please replace this with your license; https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
      license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
      assets: {
        // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
        baseUrl: '/assets'
      }
    })
  }
</script>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS-02{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

<div class="important-notice">
<h4 id="cors">CORS</h4> 
If you are loading images from external sources (e.g. from an AWS bucket), you need to first configure <b>Cross-Origin Resource Sharing</b> for both the server and the image. <br><br>
Otherwise, you will see errors such as <br>
<b><em>Failed to execute 'texImage2D' on 'WebGLRenderingContext': The cross-origin image at [...] may not be loaded.</em></b> <br>
or <br>
<b><em> Unable to get image data from canvas because the canvas has been tainted. </em></b> <br>
<br>
Please follow the instructions on how to properly configure CORS <a href="https://docs.photoeditorsdk.com/guides/html5/v4/introduction/faq/how-do-i-setup-cors">here</a>.
</div>

This was all required to get the PhotoEditor SDK up and running. For simplicity here is the whole source code of  the *html* file:

{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
    <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.js"></script>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
    <script>
      window.onload = function () {
        var image = new Image()
        image.onload = function () {
            var container = document.getElementById('editor')
            var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI({
            container: container,
            // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
            license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
            editor: {
              image: image
            },
            assets: {
              // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
              baseUrl: '/assets'
            }
          })
        }
        // image.crossOrigin = 'Anonymous'  // Setup CORS accordingly if needed
        image.src = './example.jpg'
      }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
    <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditor.UI.ReactUI.min.js"></script>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI.min.css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
    <script>
      window.onload = function () {
        var container = document.getElementById('editor')
        var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI({
          container: container,
            // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
            license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
          assets: {
            // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
            baseUrl: '/assets'
          }
        })
      }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS-03{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

Launch your favorite webserver and enjoy our editor. If you don't know which webserver to use, give `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000`` a try.


In any case, you can find a working demo integration [here](https://www.photoeditorsdk.com).

Commit message:

HTML5 FAQ and Guide restructuring

_guides/html5/v4/introduction/getting_started.md, after:

---
layout: guides/content
title: &title Getting Started
description: A quick guide on how to easily get started with the PhotoEditor SDK for HTML5. Your kick-off to delight your users with top-notch editing capabilities.
order: 1
menuitem: Getting Started
platform: html5
version: v4
category:
  - guide
  - introduction
tags: &tags # tags that are necessary
  - photo editor

published: true # Either published or not
---


Integrating our editor into your web application is easy as pie. However, if you can't wait  to see the editor in action you can find a working demo integration [here](https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/html5-demo).

<div class="documentation__disclaimer">
<h4 id="license-terms">License Terms</h4>
Make sure you have a commercial license before releasing your app.
A commercial license is always required unless you are a non-profit company. Please <a href="https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/pricing">contact us</a> to get more information about the pricing options.
</div>

__Note:__ Since we're working with the latest web technologies, all code samples are using the
ECMAScript 6 standard. If you're using an older ECMAScript / JavaScript standard, please use
[Babel](http://babeljs.io/) to compile the examples to ES5.

## What you need

First, download the [latest release](https://github.com/imgly/pesdk-html5-build/releases/latest) from our public GitHub repository and extract it.
Afterwards, you will be left with the following folder structure

```bash
├── assets
│   ├── brushes
│   ├── filters
│   ├── fonts
│   ├── frames
│   ├── overlays
│   ├── stickers
│   └── ui
├── css
└── js
    └── vendor
```

The package contains three folders that you need to integrate to your project.
1. `assets` folder: It contains all assets required for the PhotoEditor, this includes for example assets for *frames*, *stickers* and the *ui*.
1. `css` folder: It contains all *stylesheets* for the PhotoEditor SDK UI.
1. `js` folder: It contains all *javascript* sources of the PhotoEditor and its dependencies.

## Integration

Copy the folders `assets`, `css` and `js` into your project.
Then include the SDK and the UI JavaScript files as well as the CSS files inside your `<head>` tag:

{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<head>
  <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
  <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.css" />
</head>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<head>
  <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/vendor/react.min.js"></script>
  <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
  <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
  <script src="js/PhotoEditorReactUI.min.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorReactUI.min.css" />
</head>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

Now, create a `<div>` tag as a container for the editor. The editor will adapt its size according to the dimensions of the container.
For the sake of simplicity, specify the dimensions using inline styles:

```html
<div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
```

Finally, in order to initialize the editor, instantiate the UI using JavaScript. Add the following code right below our containing `<div>` element:


{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<script>
  window.onload = function () {
    var image = new Image()
    image.onload = function () {
        var container = document.getElementById('editor')
        var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI({
        container: container,
        // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
        license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
        editor: {
          image: image
        },
        assets: {
          // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
          baseUrl: '/assets'
        }
      })
    }
    // image.crossOrigin = 'Anonymous'  // Setup CORS accordingly if needed
    image.src = './example.jpg'
  }
</script>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<script>
  window.onload = function () {
    var container = document.getElementById('editor')
    var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI({
      container: container,
      // Please replace this with your license; https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
      license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
      assets: {
        // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
        baseUrl: '/assets'
      }
    })
  }
</script>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS-02{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

<!-- <div class="important-notice"> -->
<div class="documentation__disclaimer">
<h4 id="cors">CORS</h4> 
If you are loading images from external sources (e.g. from an AWS bucket), you need to first configure <b>Cross-Origin Resource Sharing</b> for both the server and the image. <br><br>
Otherwise, you will see errors such as <br>
<b><em>Failed to execute 'texImage2D' on 'WebGLRenderingContext': The cross-origin image at [...] may not be loaded.</em></b> <br>
or <br>
<b><em> Unable to get image data from canvas because the canvas has been tainted. </em></b> <br>
<br>
Please follow the instructions on how to properly configure CORS <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/guides/html5/v4/introduction/faq/cors">here</a>.
</div>

## Congratulations
This was all that is necessary to get the PhotoEditor SDK up and running. For simplicity here is the whole source code of  the *html* file:

{% capture first_snippet %}
DesktopUI
---
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
    <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.js"></script>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI.min.css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
    <script>
      window.onload = function () {
        var image = new Image()
        image.onload = function () {
            var container = document.getElementById('editor')
            var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.DesktopUI({
            container: container,
            // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
            license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
            editor: {
              image: image
            },
            assets: {
              // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
              baseUrl: '/assets'
            }
          })
        }
        // image.crossOrigin = 'Anonymous'  // Setup CORS accordingly if needed
        image.src = './example.jpg'
      }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% capture second_snippet %}
ReactUI
---
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- React Dependencies for the SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/vendor/react.production.min.js"></script>
    <script src="js/vendor/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK-->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditorSDK.min.js"></script>
    <!-- PhotoEditor SDK UI -->
    <script src="js/PhotoEditor.UI.ReactUI.min.js"></script>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI.min.css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="editor" style="width: 100vw; height: 100vh;"></div>
    <script>
      window.onload = function () {
        var container = document.getElementById('editor')
        var editor = new PhotoEditorSDK.UI.ReactUI({
          container: container,
            // Please replace this with your license: https://www.photoeditorsdk.com/dashboard/subscriptions
            license: '{"owner":"Imgly Inc.","version":"2.1", ...}',
          assets: {
            // This should be the absolute path to your `assets` directory
            baseUrl: '/assets'
          }
        })
      }
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
{% endcapture %}

{% assign snippets = "" | split: "" | push: first_snippet | push: second_snippet %}
{% capture identifier %}{{page.title}}-{{page.version}}-ANALYTICS-03{% endcapture %}
{% include multilingual_code_block.html snippets=snippets identifier=identifier %}

Launch your favorite webserver and enjoy our editor. If you don't know which webserver to use, give `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000`` a try.


In any case, you can find a working demo integration [here](https://www.photoeditorsdk.com).

## Questions ?

This guide shows you how to integrate our editor into your own application. If you run into any error messages or other problems during this process or should you have further questions about the editor itself, then please take a look at our [FAQ]({{site.baseurl}}/guides/html5/v4/introduction/faq/overview) page, which offers answers to the most common questions and errors you might run into.

If the [FAQ]({{site.baseurl}}/guides/html5/v4/introduction/faq/overview) page doesn't answer your questions, please [contact us](https://support.photoeditorsdk.com) and we will be more than happy to help!
